File-Name: <English-04.txt>
﻿Waterproof Cameras
Rugged digital cameras fill a niche

Waterproof cameras have become increasingly popular with consumers who want the convenience of a point-and-shoot in a camera that can withstand the elements -- whether at the beach or on a mountaintop. While these cameras are more rugged than standard models -- built to withstand shock, dust and low temperatures -- they often swap out design for functionality.

The Panasonic Lumix DMC-TS3 (*Est. $280) is an exception, reviewers say. This rugged camera -- an updated version of last year's top-rated Panasonic Lumix DMC-TS2 -- improves upon its toughness. The TS3 stays waterproof down to 12 meters, freezeproof to -10 degrees Celsius, dustproof, and shockproof in a 2-meter fall -- "and, as we accidentally discovered, onto a concrete surface," say testers at PhotographyBlog.com. Most owners at Amazon.com report no problems while snorkeling, swimming or diving with the TS3, and they say it works in subzero weather, too. A few owners say it leaked, but not many.

Photos and videos look fine for web sharing or for small- or medium-sized prints, reviewers say -- although not quite as good as with a top-rated non-waterproof camera like the Canon PowerShot S95 (*Est. $330). Soft details are the main recurring complaint. Shots from the 12.1-megapixel image sensor aren't quite as sharp as with the earlier TS2, discovers Liam McCabe at DigitalCameraReview.com. CNET's Joshua Goldman also points out the fuzzy details. He says internal zoom lenses like the TS3's 4.6x optical zoom lens (28-128 mm equivalent) "don't typically produce the sharpest results, and add in a rugged camera's extra lens protection and, well, you get fairly soft photos. Add in noise and noise reduction at higher ISO sensitivities and you may not want to view or print your results at larger sizes. Plus, there's a visible increase in noise at ISO 800 and above that causes color problems."

The TS3 is easy to slip into a pocket, measuring 4 inches by 2.5 inches by 1 inch thick. The main drawback? Price. TS3 strikes critics as expensive for an underwater camera, but they say its robust features are worth it, and no other waterproof camera comes close in reviews. The Canon PowerShot D10(Discontinued) ruled this category not long ago, delivering sharp, detailed images both in and out of the water at low ISO settings, with accurate exposures and warm skin tones. However, the D10 now lags behind the newer Panasonic Lumix DMC-TS3, offering only standard-definition video (the Panasonic shoots in HD), less drop protection (4 feet) and a shorter 3x zoom, in a noticeably bulkier body.

Another option, the Olympus Stylus Tough-8010 (*Est. $185), is "rugged on the outside, but average on the inside," says Joshua Goldman at CNET, and other experts agree. Steves-Digicams.com still recommends the Olympus for its sheer toughness: It's as shockproof and weatherproof as the top-rated Panasonic Lumix DMC-TS3, almost as waterproof (up to 33 feet), and it adds crushproof to its resume (up to 220 pounds). The Olympus is a bit bulkier and heavier than the Panasonic, but their specs are otherwise similar. Still, the Panasonic consistently shoots better photos and videos in tests -- experts complain of poor audio, so-so video and fuzzy enlargements with the Olympus. Painfully slow performance is another common complaint; the Olympus takes four seconds or more between shots in tests, which "makes it difficult to use for anything other than landscapes and portraits of very patient subjects," Goldman says.


http://www.consumersearch.com/digital-camera-reviews/waterproof-cameras
2012.06.21

